README.md, before:

# G2-custom-music
Allows configuring custom music (.mp3 or .sgt) in Gothic.ini. Supports multiple tracks within a single music zone.  

Powered by Union and zParserExtender. Modern audio formats are possible thanks to [zBassMusic](https://github.com/Silver-Ore-Team/zBassMusic/).

## How to configure

1. Copy your music to `_work\Data\Music`
2. Run the game at least once, so that it adds default `[CUSTOM_MUSIC]` settings to Gothic.ini.
3. Open Gothic.ini and scroll down to `[CUSTOM_MUSIC]` section.

For each music zone it adds two entries: `(musicZoneName)=track.mp3` and `(musicZoneName)_random=0`. **You configure only one of the two, never both**. `(musicZoneName)` is for one track only. Use `(musicZoneName)_random` if you want to have more than one track in that music zone (it's randomized on game load). `(musicZoneName)_random` defines how many tracks you have. These track need to have specific file names: `(musicZoneName)_(number)` and support only .mp3 for now.

```
[CUSTOM_MUSIC]
(musicZoneName)=track.mp3
(musicZoneName)_random=0 ; 0 = no randomization, above 0 = you need musicZoneName_1.mp3, musicZoneName_2.mp3, etc. Warning: will overwrite values in musicZoneName
```
Real example:
```
[CUSTOM_MUSIC]
SYS_Menu_random=3
SYS_Menu=SYS_Menu_2.mp3
hrs_day_fgt=nw_dayfgt.sgt
hrs_ngt_std=NW_FOREST.mp3
```

## Don't know which track is played where?

Set in Gothic.ini:
```
[BASSMUSIC]
LoggerLevelUnion=TRACE
```
and in SystemPack.ini:
```
[CORE]
ShowDebugWindow = true
```

in console window you will see logs when music zone changes:
```
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::CMusicSys_Bass] PlayThemeByScript: OR_DAY_STD
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::CMusicSys_Bass] PlayThemeByScript: OR_NGT_STD
```
"OR_DAY_STD" and "OR_NGT_STD" are the music zones here.

In case you have set music zones to use .mp3:
```
  INFO  [zBassMusic::ChangeZoneCommand] Music zone changed: KHO_DAY_STD
  INFO  [zBassMusic::ScheduleThemeChangeCommand] Scheduling theme: KHO_DAY_STD
 DEBUG  [zBassMusic::MusicTheme] Transition HRS_NGT_STD to KHO_DAY_STD
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::Event_OnChange] KHO_DAY_STD, NW_CITY.mp3
```
"KHO_DAY_STD" and "HRS_NGT_STD" are the music zones here.

Basically, all you have to do is: find music zone you want change (i.e. "KHO_DAY_STD") in Gothic.ini and change its corresponding track.  
Or, in case you want to have more than one track, rename multiple tracks to KHO_DAY_STD_1.mp3, KHO_DAY_STD_2.mp3, ... and set KHO_DAY_STD_random range to the amount of tracks you want to use.

> [!WARNING]  
> Warning: try to use .sgt where possible and keep .mp3 usage under 80 entries, or zBassMusic might crash the game.

Commit message:

Update README.md: add compatibility section

README.md, after:

# G2-custom-music
Allows configuring custom music (.mp3 or .sgt) in Gothic.ini. Supports multiple tracks within a single music zone.  

Powered by Union and zParserExtender. Modern audio formats are possible thanks to [zBassMusic](https://github.com/Silver-Ore-Team/zBassMusic/).

## How to configure

1. Copy your music to `_work\Data\Music`
2. Run the game at least once, so that it adds default `[CUSTOM_MUSIC]` settings to Gothic.ini.
3. Open Gothic.ini and scroll down to `[CUSTOM_MUSIC]` section.

For each music zone it adds two entries: `(musicZoneName)=track.mp3` and `(musicZoneName)_random=0`. **You configure only one of the two, never both**. `(musicZoneName)` is for one track only. Use `(musicZoneName)_random` if you want to have more than one track in that music zone (it's randomized on game load). `(musicZoneName)_random` defines how many tracks you have. These track need to have specific file names: `(musicZoneName)_(number)` and support only .mp3 for now.

```
[CUSTOM_MUSIC]
(musicZoneName)=track.mp3
(musicZoneName)_random=0 ; 0 = no randomization, above 0 = you need musicZoneName_1.mp3, musicZoneName_2.mp3, etc. Warning: will overwrite values in musicZoneName
```
Real example:
```
[CUSTOM_MUSIC]
SYS_Menu_random=3
SYS_Menu=SYS_Menu_2.mp3
hrs_day_fgt=nw_dayfgt.sgt
hrs_ngt_std=NW_FOREST.mp3
```

## Compatibility
Tailored for unmodded game and New Balance mod. Thanks to zPE, it doesn't overwrite the entire MUSIC.DAT and should work with any G2 mod that uses vanilla game zones. If New Balance complains about unsupported zBass .dlls, it means they are not whitelisted and union_abi.dll needs to be edited in [HxD](https://mh-nexus.de/en/hxd/) (search for any white-listed .dll and replace with all zBass .dlls).

## Don't know which track is played where?

Set in Gothic.ini:
```
[BASSMUSIC]
LoggerLevelUnion=TRACE
```
and in SystemPack.ini:
```
[CORE]
ShowDebugWindow = true
```

in console window you will see logs when music zone changes:
```
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::CMusicSys_Bass] PlayThemeByScript: OR_DAY_STD
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::CMusicSys_Bass] PlayThemeByScript: OR_NGT_STD
```
"OR_DAY_STD" and "OR_NGT_STD" are the music zones here.

In case you have set music zones to use .mp3:
```
  INFO  [zBassMusic::ChangeZoneCommand] Music zone changed: KHO_DAY_STD
  INFO  [zBassMusic::ScheduleThemeChangeCommand] Scheduling theme: KHO_DAY_STD
 DEBUG  [zBassMusic::MusicTheme] Transition HRS_NGT_STD to KHO_DAY_STD
 TRACE  [zBassMusic::Event_OnChange] KHO_DAY_STD, NW_CITY.mp3
```
"KHO_DAY_STD" and "HRS_NGT_STD" are the music zones here.

Basically, all you have to do is: find music zone you want change (i.e. "KHO_DAY_STD") in Gothic.ini and change its corresponding track.  
Or, in case you want to have more than one track, rename multiple tracks to KHO_DAY_STD_1.mp3, KHO_DAY_STD_2.mp3, ... and set KHO_DAY_STD_random range to the amount of tracks you want to use.

> [!WARNING]  
> Warning: try to use .sgt where possible and keep .mp3 usage under 80 entries, or zBassMusic might crash the game.
